Practice interview questions...
1. Tell me a little bit about yourself?
2. What kind of work environment are you looking for in the next opportunity you take?
3. What are your strengths and weaknesses as a developer?
4. Tell me about a group project that you are passionate about?
5. Where do you see yourself in 3-5 years?
6. How would your co-workers describe you?
7. Tell me about a time where you and your teammates did not agree?
8. Why should we hire you?
9. What's your dream job?
10. Can you explain why you changed career paths?
11. How do you deal with pressure or stressful situations?
12. What would your first 30, 60, or 90 days look like in this role?
13. What are your salary requirements?
14. Give an example of a goal you reached and tell me how you achieved it
15. Have you ever made a mistake? How did you handle it?
16. When you worked on multiple projects how did you prioritize?
17. Have you had to convince a team to utilize a tool/language they weren't thrilled about? How did you do it?
18. Have you ever had a project that had to change drastically while it was in progress? Why? How did you do it?
19. Tell me about a major setback you've had. How did you deal with it?
20. Describe the internet to someone who just woke up from a 30-year coma. (Brain teaser)

1. They need to answer this question with their Elevator pitch: (past - their background,
present - how they found Lambda what they're learning at Lambda a good time to
humblebrag about technical skills, future - tie in background and new skills to talk about
potential future job)

2. Be specific, know about what you want in terms of company culture, size, mentor,
etc…try to rope in some specifics about the company (you should have some
background on them)

3. First way to answer this question is to name a weakness that's not really a weakness i.e.
- "I'm too much of a perfectionist" etc... Second way is to actually provide a weakness
but then without being prompted provide how you're going to FIX the weakness

4. First talk about what the function of the project is (high level) Make sure they mention
how the group put the project together (up sale your tech skills again), BUT don't forget
to talk about YOUR individual contribution

5. Have a specific answer, show you've done your research KNOW where you want to be,
know what the career progression for a software engineer is.

6. Up sell your soft skills here, be careful about being overly arrogant sounding or too
cheesy.

7. Again anytime you provide an obstacle or any kind of negative - make sure they also
provide how they fixed it or a solution

8. Another good opportunity to up sale your tech/soft skills - you should have an idea of
what the job description is that you're interviewing for so rope in some of those
qualifications here - Your job here is to craft an answer that covers three things: that you
can not only do the work, you can deliver great results; that you'll really fit in with the
team and culture; and that you'd be a better hire than any of the other candidates.

9. Break it down into three parts, like this: What Skills Do You Want to Use? What Interests
You? What Are Your Values?

10. Explain to the hiring manager why you've made the career decisions you have. More
importantly, give a few examples of how your past experience is transferable to the new
role. This doesn't have to be a direct connection; in fact, it's often more impressive when
a candidate can make seemingly irrelevant experience seem very relevant to the role. But
also SHOW YOUR PASSION FOR ENGINEERING!

11. A great approach is to talk through your go-to stress-reduction tactics (making the
world's greatest to-do list, stopping to take 10 deep breaths), and then share an example
of a stressful situation you navigated with ease.

12. Start by explaining what you'd need to do to get ramped up. What information would you
need? What parts of the company would you need to familiarize yourself with? What
other employees would you want to sit down with? Next, choose a couple of areas where
you think you can make meaningful contributions right away. (e.g., "I think a great starter
project would be diving into your email marketing campaigns and setting up a tracking
system for them.")
13. You should always start off by saying you're more interested in the opportunity and if it's
the right one you're willing to be flexible - you don't have to give them a number right
then and there. IF they are pushing you for an actual # then the #1 rule of answering this
question is doing your research on what you should be paid by using sites like
Glassdoor. Formula to use: walk away rate + 10k and a 20k range from there: 60k + 10k
= 70k so the range would be 70k-90k. Then, make sure the hiring manager knows that
you're flexible. You're communicating that you know your skills are valuable, but that you
want the job and are willing to negotiate
14. Time to humble brag about yourself a bit - use the STAR method here, tell them about a
situation/obstacle/challenge you had in terms of a goal - tell them how you went about
systematically breaking this down as if you were an engineer piece by piece, then tell
them the results.
15. Another one of those questions where they rope you into saying something negative -
just remember give them a genuine mistake but even if they don't ask you how you fixed
it - tell them anyway - think like an engineer ALWAYS provide a solution or a way to a
solution
16. Again this is a specific Engineer type question, use your common sense, tell them about
trello boards and how you make lists, break things into pieces, your specific way of
prioritizing - there's no right or wrong answer they just want to see your thought process
17. This is where you show your FAIR leadership skills. You want to show that you came up
with a democratic way to share your ideas, i.e. we had everyone sit down and share why
they each thought this tool/language would be best, I brought the best and most
efficient solution to the table, I won majority vote, etc…
18. Put your Engineer hat on, this is where you can show them you can be ADAPTABLE,
make it known you did not stress about having to change things you simply found a way
to come up with the best solution in your time crunch
19. This doesn't have to be related to Engineering at all, but keep in mind they want to see
how you handle challenges/stress remember always provide a solution if you have to
provide a problem/challenge/obstacle. Highlight some soft skills here, calm in the face
or pressure, leadership, time management, etc…
20. You may get weird brain teasers like this - remember they don't actually need the right
answer they're trying to see how your mind works, be creative, think like an Engineer - be
technical if it's a technology related question, show your personality here a bit :)


What qualities make you a great fit for this position?
Think of what makes you stand out as a job applicant for this role. Review the job description closely and note ways that you exceed the requirements.
Why are you interested in the role?
Brainstorm why this position excites you, how it fits into your larger career goals and why you feel it’s the best next step.
Why are you interested in the company or the industry?
After you’ve spent time researching the company and the industry, you should have a better sense of the mission, goals and trends impacting the industry. Do these align with the professional goals that you’ve set for yourself? What do you like and respect about the company as a whole? What excites you about the future of the industry? As you start building your story, tie together similarities among your professional goals, the future vision of the company and industry trends you feel are especially important.
What are the positive traits or characteristics you possess that will serve you well in this role?
For example, have friends or colleagues described you as especially organized? Curious? Entrepreneurial? Generous? Think about how you’ve long thought of yourself or how others have seen you. Then, think of recent examples from your life when you embodied that characteristic.
Is there something unique about your background that makes you stand out from other applicants?
As we’ve mentioned, this is one of the most common interview questions. Therefore, interviewers have heard this answered time and time again. Try to think of something that will hook the interviewer. For example, saying something like, “I’ve been building computers since the age of 8,” when applying for a developer role is likely to make an interviewer's ears perk up.